README.md, before:

# Pymosaic

A Python module to create photomosaic images.  

Currently, there is no transparency. Tiles are chosen based the distance (in RGB space) minimization between the average RGB values in a tile and the average RGB values in each zone in target image.

Nearest neighbors computations can be done either using numba and a brute force approach or using cKDTree from scipy.
Brute force tends to be a little faster for image database <50k (not tested for larger database).
Using brute force method, one can specify the number of times a tile is reused in the mosaic.  
This is not possible using a kdtree, because we would need to rebuild the tree at each iteration.
To add a little variety in the tiles, we can query randomly one of the k-th neighbors (when reuse value = k), and not always the nearest.

## Install
install using python setup.py install  

Requirements: numba, scipy, numpy


To create a photomosaic, you just need:
- An target image
- A pool of images with same shapes

## 1. Create a pool of resized images (if needed):

    Use the function create_tileset(input_dir, target_dir, size=(64, 64), max_im=None, replace=False, ncpu=cpu_count())
    - input_dir: directory where images are stored (recursive search, so all images in subfolders are processed).
    - target_dir: where the resized images are saved
    - size: (tuple) (nx,ny) image size
    - max_im: maximum number of processed images
    - replace: if True, rdelete the target_directory, else, just add images.
    
    This function also creates a RGBdata.json that stores the average R,G and B values for each image in the target directory

## 2. Create a MosaicMaker object:

    mosaicmaker = MosaicMaker(input_image="path/to/target/image",tiles_dir="path/to/images/pool/",mintiles120,tilesize=(50,50))
    
    where:
    - input_image: target image
    - tiles_dir: directory containing images used as tiles (must be of the same size)
    - mintiles: minimum number of tiles horizontally or vertically
    - tilessize: tuple giving the size of the tiles (must be the same as the images in tiles_dir)
    
## 3. Build the mosaic :

    mosaic_image = mosaicmaker.build_mosaic(filename="path/to/mosaic/image.jpg,reuse=20,randomize=True,method='brute-force')
    
    where:
    - filename is the name of the mosaic that will be created.  
      If None, it creates a file in current directory using the input_filename:  
      "mosaic-reuse{XX}-{tilesinX}x{tilesinY}-TS{tilesizeX}x{}-{tilesizeY}" + input_image
    - reuse: number of time a tile can be reused in the mosaic. Higher values creates better mosaic, but with less variety. Very low value could produce strange results... If the number of images in the tiles_dir is not sufficient, tiles will be reused (after all images have been used 'reused' times). Note that this parameter has a different effect when used with kdtree. 
    - randomize: iterate the image randomly. Way better that sequentially, especially if the number of tile is small.  
    - method: either 'brute-force (default) or 'kdtree'. kdtree is better to deal with large image database > 100k images for example. 
    -When method='kdtree' the reuse args is used to add a bit of variety in the returned tiles. 
    if reuse=k, each tiles is chosen randomly from the k-th nearest neighbors.
    
    build_mosaic also return the created mosaic image

## 4. Tips
- Try different reuse values to tune the mosaic. With small reuse values, the produced mosaic could be less accurate, but it can creates interesting effects. High reuse values produce accurate mosaic, but with no tile variety in homogeneous zones.
- Prefer brute-force when the number of images used for tiles is not too large.

Commit message:

shuffle images before buckets creation

README.md, after:

# Pymosaic

A Python module to create photomosaic images.  

Currently, there is no transparency. Tiles are chosen based the distance (in RGB space) minimization between the average RGB values in a tile and the average RGB values in each zone in target image.

Nearest neighbors computations can be done either using numba and a brute force approach or using cKDTree from scipy.

Brute force tends to be equivalent for image database <50k (not tested for larger database). 
It is possible to create buckets of images if the total number of images is too large. The best tile in a randomly chosen bucket is returned at each position.

Using brute force method, one can specify the number of times a tile is reused in the mosaic.  
This is not possible using a kdtree, because we would need to rebuild the tree at each iteration.
To add a little variety in the tiles, we can query randomly one of the k-th neighbors (when reuse value = k), and not always the nearest.

kdtree seems a bit faster, even for small bucket size (why ?).

## Install
install using python setup.py install  

Requirements: numba, scipy, numpy


To create a photomosaic, you just need:
- An target image
- A pool of images with same shapes

## 1. Create a pool of resized images (if needed):

    Use the function create_tileset(input_dir, target_dir, size=(64, 64), max_im=None, replace=False, ncpu=cpu_count())
    - input_dir: directory where images are stored (recursive search, so all images in subfolders are processed).
    - target_dir: where the resized images are saved
    - size: (tuple) (nx,ny) image size
    - max_im: maximum number of processed images
    - replace: if True, rdelete the target_directory, else, just add images.
    
    This function also creates a RGBdata.json that stores the average R,G and B values for each image in the target directory

## 2. Create a MosaicMaker object:

    mosaicmaker = MosaicMaker(input_image="path/to/target/image",tiles_dir="path/to/images/pool/",mintiles120,tilesize=(50,50))
    
    where:
    - input_image: target image
    - tiles_dir: directory containing images used as tiles (must be of the same size)
    - mintiles: minimum number of tiles horizontally or vertically
    - tilessize: tuple giving the size of the tiles (must be the same as the images in tiles_dir)
    
## 3. Build the mosaic :

    mosaic_image = mosaicmaker.build_mosaic(filename="path/to/mosaic/image.jpg,reuse=20,randomize=True,method='brute-force')
    
    where:
    - filename is the name of the mosaic that will be created.  
      If None, it creates a file in current directory using the input_filename:  
      "mosaic-reuse{XX}-{tilesinX}x{tilesinY}-TS{tilesizeX}x{}-{tilesizeY}" + input_image
    - reuse: number of time a tile can be reused in the mosaic. Higher values creates better mosaic, but with less variety. Very low value could produce strange results... If the number of images in the tiles_dir is not sufficient, tiles will be reused (after all images have been used 'reused' times). Note that this parameter has a different effect when used with kdtree. 
    - randomize: iterate the image randomly. Way better that sequentially, especially if the number of tile is small.  
    - method: either 'brute-force (default) or 'kdtree'. kdtree is better to deal with large image database > 100k images for example. 
    -When method='kdtree' the reuse args is used to add a bit of variety in the returned tiles. 
    if reuse=k, each tiles is chosen randomly from the k-th nearest neighbors.
    
    build_mosaic also return the created mosaic image

## 4. Tips
- Try different reuse values to tune the mosaic. With small reuse values, the produced mosaic could be less accurate, but it can creates interesting effects. High reuse values produce accurate mosaic, but with no tile variety in homogeneous zones.
